Not come with me.
Hello guys and welcome back to new tutorial on laser rangefinders withdraws.
In this video I'm going to demonstrate how to connect.
How cool you are you are 0 for the x rays finder with reskin at.
And this particular razor is very popular and is used in many robotic platforms.
As already explained in the introductory lecture this laser sensor has seen a range of around 4 meters
and a few of you of 200 40 degrees with an approximate cost of 1000 dollars.
There are a number of steps that we need to follow in order to connect the sensor and make it up and
running with it.
So first of all we need to make sure that the you know package is downloaded to our system and then
we have to run it using the command Rajasthani you know the genome.
So this is a genetic node that can be used in order to access and connect to many sensors including
zero for an x that we are dealing with in this video.
By running this node all the information coming from the laser range finder will be published in a topic
called Sky and this topic as already mentioned several times.
This is the common name of topic for laser scanners data and information so unlike the case of the camera
we don't have good depth image that we need to convert a scanned topic but we will have direct access
to the topic as soon as we execute the node you know which is going to start the drivers of the laser
scanner.
However there is one thing that we need to define which is very important and that is the transformation
between the map frame and the laser free.
Of course we will have a complete chapter on the transformation Indras.
So don't worry about that if you don't understand what our transformation is and what you see.
But to explain it in a very simple way we're going just to tell us what is the location of this sensor
into the environment.
OK so since we don't have any specific location we're going to say that this sensor is located at point
0 0 0 coordinate in x y and z coordinates.
OK.
And the orientation will be zero.
So to do that we are going to use the package D F and the No that is called static transform publisher
which is going to create a transformation between the map frame and the laser.
As already mentioned.
It is just specifying the position of the laser in the water and you are going to say that this position
is going to be zeros or x y z coordinates and also 0 for the orientation or the end.
As already mentioned we are going to talk about this into more details for now it doesn't matter if
we put any kind of number here because our objective is to visualize the sensory data and not to localize
objects with respect to what.
This is basically the simplest explanation so just assume that we can define the position of the laser
with respect to the water as being at the location 0 0 0 and at the only station zero that's a and then
after starting the static transform and you actually know you're going to visualize the formation of
this country big both using just a big echo and also using Arbys which is the trust visualization.
So let's see how it works in practice.
Now we are ready to start working with the Hoquiam sensor.
The first thing we need to do is to connect the sensor to be current.
And then as you can see we need to connect to the since you're going to work on the Linux environment.
Now we are ready to start the driver was powered on of course in order to run the driver we need to
start Scott because we will use our son so first of what we need to start M.A. and that we need to make
sure that you know you you start.
So what we can do we can do is you know if we get it it's time for us you know did you or did he not
get the password.
So it's already installed on my computer.
If it is not this cold.
So you have to install it first and then you are ready to start the drive restaurant.
You already know you are you know now it is connected to the serial device and start streaming the data.
So let me first close the connection and before connecting let's make it stop exist.
So as you can see we don't have any on topic for the moment.
Now I'm going to start again.
Do you already know
not it is connected again.
So I can now rest topic list as you can see now we have the second topic gay and different other topics
but we are not interested to discuss topics that contains all the information as usual what you can
do.
You can use this topic echo scandal.
And here we are getting the array of ranges.
OK so this is the early ages.
You can observe it.
It is much longer than the Asias life pro are going to be coming up.
So don't forget that here we have a field of view of 270 degrees.
But as we age just like we have a field of view of only 60 degrees.
And basically this is now the minimum angle and the maximum again in region if we convert this one in
two degrees so you'll find around minus 135.
We can use a calculator just to check it.
So we have two certified 6:1.
We were told by the 14 multiplied by one patient.
So it's around yes 135.
So it's between 145 and minus 135.
So the field of your here is actually two hundred seventy.
So now we are able to get all the information using or stopping a goal like we did in the previous video
with the other day we come in and up we would like to visualize Melissa Scott and for this we are going
to use the restaurant Arby's Arby's again.
And remember that Arby's is the rest of the realization to
here initially we don't have any topic because it's not in our list.
So we can do it from here.
And we use Laserscope then we can select the topic here.
Scott as you can see we're still unable to see anything here because we have a warning says that there
is no data.
There is no transformation date.
Now here we are if it's true the map is not defined and there is no frame associated with the laser
range finder you would find.
So the difference is that when we started open I to it already started with the signing frames for the
camera.
That's why we were able actually to visualize the laser scanner.
But here with the hook or your sensor using this driver you know it doesn't actually start any brain
doesn't about what is the position of sensor in the world.
For this reason we need to find this man.
How can he do that so.
Look no there isn't.
I'm going to use transformation has already explained in the introduction we would use a static transform
publisher between the free map that represents the word environment.
And that is a tree that represents the location of the laser was really explained just for you and he
literally position is this is going to be zero on the x y and z coordinates and also for the patient
of course he mumbled that talk about this study he said more than is when you talk about formations
because this topic is a problem.
But for now it's been just a matter of finding a certain location for the laser scanner and all of this
the patient would be just the something.
Now when I started the F formation OK I no longer have any problem here.
So you can see now the map is defined and they have also the laser both of them well-define.
Well first of all we can move this intersection here just looking the size of two point five and we
can have some observations.
So the first observation that we can do now is that the field of view of the laser scanner is much larger
than the life boat camera that we discussed in the previous video.
So you can see now we have complete coverage of almost And then around 270 degrees.
Remember for the camera we only had this fortunate that was covered in present.
Almost one fourth or one fifth of these total coverage by the laser scanner.
We can also show the position of the laser scanner by here X and so here in the middle.
So it's absurd.
This is 150 degrees on the left and the right side.
And also it can go even backward.
OK so you can see I'm sitting here now.
And you can see now the laser is actually in my motion as well because it's not even behind me with
an optical front of a laser scanner as you can see now.
OK.
So now I'm looking this bar.
We can see now this is the location of the bar in front of the laser scanner.
So this shows actually the capabilities for using laser scanner to detect obstacles.
A wider view of this is a major advantage.
Compare with use that actually can become better.
So this matters a lot especially if we use the laser scanner to build maps using some algorithms they
need maps some with larger if you will result in a better accuracy on the maps.
And this is why because of the laser scanner depends on the effect.
Now we were able to visualize the laser scanner out of Houston also using at least the next step is
all that information coming from the laser scanner system and using some application logic.
So in the next video I'm going to show you what we know and what you subscribe to the laser scanner
the political and statistics for example if you want to calculate the maximum distance of the maximum
range the angle of the maximum range.
What is the minimum distance.
What is the distance to a certain angle.
So all of these parameters can be calculated using gross.
First of all you need to be a no subscriber the talking scan.
And then in the callback function you can process information coming from the center.
So let's see how that works.